---
title: Data format
layout: layouts/docs.njk
---

{% hint style="danger" %}
This data schema is in beta and can change with little notice.
{% endhint %}

OA.Report collects data on scholarly works such as papers, preprints, datasets, and code. Some of that data is generated by OA.Works and some are reused from other open sources.

For an example of a record with most of the possible fields, go to [https://api.oa.works/report/works/10.1016/j.ijid.2020.05.122](https://beta.oa.works/report/works/10.1016/j.ijid.2020.05.122)

## Data reused from external sources

Open sources provide much of the core metadata used by OA.Report.

See Crossref’s documentation for the following keys:

* `funder`
  * `name`
  * `award`
  * `DOI`
* `subject`

{% hint style="info" %}
Note: Crossref is not our only source of funding data. However, it is the best source of open, structured data.
{% endhint %}

See [OpenAlex’s documentation](https://docs.openalex.org/about-the-data/work#title) for the following keys:

* `doi`
* `title`
* `subtitle`
* `journal`
* `publisher`
* `issn`
* `volume`
* `issue`
* `PMCID`
* `is_retracted`
* `is_paratext`
* `is_oa`
* `published_date`
* `published_year`
* `type`
* `authorships`
  * `author`
    * `id`
    * `display_name`
    * `orcid`
    * `author_position`
  * `institutions`
    * `id`
    * `display_name`
    * `ror`
    * `raw_affiliation_string`
* `concepts`
  * `display_name`
  * `id`
  * `level`
  * `score`

{% hint style="info" %}
We use equivalent Crossref data where OpenAlex data isn’t yet available to provide up-to-date results. In some cases, such as \`PMCID\`, we use other sources to provide more complete coverage.
{% endhint %}

See [Unpaywall’s documentation](https://unpaywall.org/data-format) for the following keys:

* `oadoi_is_oa` (see `` `is_oa` ``)
* `oa_status`
* `has_repository_copy`
* `has_oa_locations_embargoed`

In the below, `host_type` is prepended to a key as a helpful simplification over Unpaywall’s `oa_locations` data:

* `publisher_version`
* `publisher_license`
* `publisher_url_for_pdf`
* `repository_version`
* `repository_license`
* `repository_url`
* `repository_url_for_pdf`
* `repository_url_in_pmc`
* `best_oa_location_url`
* `best_oa_location_url_for_pdf`
